\newpage

# _Class_ 03.02.2021

- start off with free writing
- can you really forgive people, is everyone doing it?
- first forgive, let something go, them you can forget it
- forgetting things to move on, but it does not mean that the perps are welcome
in your life again
- damn, Forsberg is a savage; didn't talk to his parents for 35 years, being
somewhat happy that some of them died
- if something is cancer, just cut it out
- now Meerim is presenting

## Free writing

Forgetting and forgiving---should you always forgive?

As far as I understood his goal was a pacified, happy memory. To achieve this,
forgetting and forgiving can be a decent tool. If one can forgive misgiving or
injuries or crimes one experienced, it might be easier to live with them; one
is no longer holding a grudge or worse. Once something is forgiven, it can be
seen as being a process or event that has been completed or concluded. There 
are no unresolved parts left. Once this happens I could imagine forgetting it 
is easier. Trying to forget a thing that has not been completed seems almost
impossible.

I am not sure if forgiving is always the best method to achieve this state of
closure though. In some cases crimes or injuries might be of such a nature that
forgiving seems almost impossible, see Holocaust. In these cases other methods
might work. For example a trial and conviction could give closure. Revenge
could also bring some closure. Compartmentalisation or denial can possible
help, too. In the end though, finding closure for whatever
happened is a purely individual task. No trial and not even revenge could give
it if the person is not willing to put an end to things and accept them for
reality. I understand why Ricoeur puts this task on forgiveness because if you
can forgive someone for what they did it means that you can accept that it
happened, you have learned to live with it, and you no longer hold a grudge.
All in all this seems incredibly difficult and maybe impossible, but as an
ultimate goal it may have a purpose.

## _Meerim_ Memory and Forgetting in Paul Ricœur’s Theory of the Capable Self (Maureen Junker-Kenny)

- develops position in discourse with philosophical tradition
- philosophy has to distinguish true from false memories
- Aristotle started the tradition of seeing memory in time
- biggest question: how can we access the past
- we recall memories as images; how can we tell if it is from the past or
totally made up
- Aristotle assumed (incorrectly) that we can know because actually we cannot
- to know we need to know past, present, future all at the same time
- Aristotle was inductive in reasoning, Plato was deductive
- Ricoeur deals with the fact that we cannot remember facts $\rightarrow$ we misremember
- remembering is weird, forgetting might be the best thing
- false memories can still have consequence(s)
- there are always false stories that everyone knows and most believe
    - George Washington cutting down a cherry tree
    - the Manas epic being 1000 years old, Kyrgyzstan being 2000 years old
- sometimes lies for nation building can be good, but there is some danger to
building something on lies
- telling the truth is impossible (generally speaking), so one might as well
make up something positive
- "remembering in the future tense": having ambitions, plans, dreams

\newpage

# _Notes_ Cultural Memory Studies: Psychology, Narrative, and Cultural Memory: Past and Present (Jürgen Straub)

p. 215

## Establishing Memory Discourses in the Nineteenth Century: A Cultural-Psychological Footnote on European “Retrospective Culture” and the Development of Narrative Psychology

- memory sciences developed as scientific approach to human soul
- memory as essential element of human life
- working out life history to solve problems
- _art_ of memory became eclipsed by _science_ of memory
- focus on narratives in memory studies
- sometimes story telling is the only way to make sense of a certain event or
psychological situation
- recollection often happens in the shape of a story (or part of one)
- to manage life one must recollect and reconstruct
- who narrates his own history is authentic 
- person is equivalent to their memories
- we can also anticipate future memories (future perfect tense)
- processing of one's own past is central to psychological treatment
- recalled memories (recollections) are creative constructions
- memories change over time
- obsession with the past is not good
- retrospective culture reigns supreme
- present can only be seen accurately with a (deciphered) picture of the past

## Narrative Psychology and an Active, Constructive Memory

- history is to complex for simple facts, we needs narratives
- memory and recollection are cultural tools
- memory is not simple facts, it is significant, meaningful, thus communicable
experience
- _scheme_ is an organized unit of memory
- "Memory operates both actively and creatively. Recollections are meaningfully
structured compositions or constructions. The one who is recollecting creates
or affirms a world permeated with sense and meaning. Memory and recollection
are prominently involved in people’s attempts to endow their experiences with
sense and meaning that conforms to socio-cultural standards (values, rules in
the form of norms or conventions, habits, goals, etc.) An important part of
this process consists in a narrative arrangement and integration of events
into generally intelligible stories. If it is required by one’s own cultural,
social, and psychological “logic,” one leaves out one detail or another and
adds something else here or there, changing things until they assume a more or
less comprehensible guise." (p. 222)
- remembering is dependent on cultural devices and practices

## Dissociated Stories, Multiple Personalities: Cultural Schemata of a Split or a Multiple Self

- we can study the past better if we use methodical analysis
- the root of personal problems was seen in the past of a person
- multiple personality disorder is said to be caused by severe unresolved and
buried trauma, generally of sexual nature
- therapists can generate false memories, even if they do not mean to
- patients simply accept those false memories as their own
- working with memory is the first step to "soothing the pain"
- this work with memory is autobiographical and narrative, working on memory
modifies the stories we have of ourselves, updates them and the narrative self
- memories and their personal reconstruction are culturally encoded
- without for example the notion of psychological trauma the concept of
multiple personalities would be unthinkable
- narratives about oneself encode already familiar stories 
- memory is narrated as a member of a certain culture
