\newpage
# _Class_ 24.02.2021

- looking at the works suggested for the new canon
- most suggestions are very culture-specific, this is a general problem canons
have
- oral literature is generally not included
- the included works should appreciate and embrace our values, of course
- we should maybe include some texts to read critically and see how problematic
they are
- reading critically should be included in our canon (what kind of dictatorship
is this?)
- Ibragim puts his own work at the end of the list, this work is based on his
own experiences
- now for free writing
- if it's fiction it is not worth reading; it does not have the same connection
to real events; it still has some value because some people will still believe
it
- an agreement; keeping diary important for those who will read it at some
point; reading a fictional diary is not worth it because it is made up and does
not have the same impact?
- they don't lose their value even if they are in doubt because we can analyze
it regardless; who really benefits from it being authentic or fiction? we can
never be 100% sure in any case
- now Ibragim's presentation
- she will send us an email about our assignment

## Free writing

What is the value of life-writing if the authenticity of the document is 
doubted? Think of the controversy around Anne Frank’s diary, and explain 
whether it is worth reading if it is a work of fiction, not a real diary 
written by a 13-years-old girl who died in a concentration camp.

Having an inauthentic piece of life-writing is a problem because now we cannot
attribute the things we read to the supposed author. But I think when it comes 
to life-writing authenticity is not the main focus.
Although there are different types of life-writing, they all share an element
of personal influence (coming from the author or the subject, in case they are
different) that distorts what is written. This distortion is unavoidable for
this medium because everything that is written is modified by memory and how
memory is produced and conveyed. This means that any life-writing is tainted,
if not inauthentic, because of the way memory works.

If the authenticity of a document is in doubt, it cannot serve as evidence
of what the (supposed) author experienced. Nonetheless, even inauthentic
life-writing can convey the same memories and emotions as if it were authentic.
And even if the author is actually the author, they would present themselves in
a certain light, even if unintentionally. This can, in a way, be seen as
inauthentic in the same way as someone pretending to someone else. 

## _Ibragim_ Life-Writing, Cultural Memory, and Literary Studies (Max Saunders)

- introduces life-writing as a wide-reaching term 
- autobiography is supposed to present personal memories
- if we read it from a cultural memory perspective we can put ourselves into
the context of the writing (e.g. being a kid in the 1800s)
- misunderstands the old way of writing history--there only great men
influenced history through their own exceptionalism
- life-writing helps social historians because it gives a window into bygone
times
- survivors of catastrophes form memory through their stories
- feminist attitude towards life-writing: they are using it to bring into focus
forgotten and excluded women in history
- texts do not reveal cold, hard facts, but they reveal memory cultures and how
people wrote stuff down
- memories are constructed--they are not simple transcriptions of events, they
reflect morals, values, incorporate metanarratives
- we also add meaning to events in trying to make sense of them
- all of these things contain a grain of truth
- going against the grain: reading a text critically and not how it was meant
to be read
- Question: "Life-writing" covers various texts and forms. If you were to write 
a "life-writing", meaning tell a life story, which form of writing would you 
choose and why? In addition, what would you include in your story? 
    - if I were to do life-writing I would probably choose a diary, I feel like
    that would give a more authentic experience
    - this diary would include what happened to me and how I reacted to it, 
- he wants to include life advice for people and only the most important pieces
of information
- when people read novels, they pay a lot of attention to the truth value of
the statements; people cite a lot of shit in their autobiographies
- in the 20th century, we find more fictional and constructed narratives
- "the person who experiences is different from the person who writes"
- why did we see this radical change in approaches? relates to mentality and
paradigm shift
