\newpage
# _Class_ 03.03.2021

## Organization

- most of Forsberg's books have a biographical aspect to them, reading them
could tell us something about him
- one of our assignments relating to some of Forsberg's writing and its
relation to memory studies
- first assignment due before spring break--compare the two movies
- we talked about cultural trauma, comparing traumas, approaches to trauma,
cosmopolitan memory models (perspective of the victim); hidden life--against
that kind of memory
- choose any angle or topic to compare 2 or more of the movies with each other
- follow academic rules, follow word count expectations etc from the syllabus
- she is focused on academic honesty--she will send the prompt to us?

## Discussion

- journalism and memory
- free writing now
- first-hand contributors
- focus on different things that the mainstream media misses
- can increase trust in the media if people themselves participate
- presentation now

## Free writing

Advantages and disadvantages of open-source / citizen journalism:

Obvious advantages that I can see are that this type of journalism would be
more open to participation by normal people. You do not need a degree or
exceptional writing ability to create works of journalism. The hold of big
media corporations on journalism and media could also be weakened because they
no longer control all the news. 

From the perspective of memory, a many-voiced journalism can give a more
accurate representation of cultural memory than journalism created by a kind of
elite. If more people from different backgrounds engage in journalism, this
journalism can reflect more diverse cultures of memory. For example this could
contrast the general journalistic representation of 9/11 from a white American
perspective with the perspective of an American of Middle-Eastern origin who
would have a different story to tell.

The disadvantages for general journalism could be that there is less control of
what is being published. I know I also put this as a positive point, but if
there is no regulation, people can easily publish falsehoods, lies, inciting
material, etc. Considering the enormous influence the media has on our thinking
and our actions, there would need to be robust, transparent moderation of this
open-source journalism to keep journalism distinct from pure opinion writing.

For memory I am sure that there are at least some drawbacks, but I cannot think
of any.

## _Begimai_ Journalism’s Memory Work (Barbie Zelizer)

- journalism is generally very focused on the most immediate present
- but analysis shows that to make sense of the present journalists use
connections to the past
- they either use the past to explain the present, use it for analogies
- "Journalism’s institutional memory is nurtured by the tensions surrounding 
the critical incidents of the public sphere, and so the presence of 
contestation and debate is often a reliable predictor that memory work will at 
some point begin"
- journalistic conventions are kind of important
- can journalists write objectively?
    - not quite, they are human after all
- influencing media:
    - hard power of a state
    - funding influence on organizations
- censorship online on social media (Facebook) as well as the internet in
general (AWS and Parler)
